# OTTER

## Light and Vibration Gesture Sensing with OTTER: Embedded Data Collection and Analysis Using LLMs (SenSys '23)

The rapid growth in wireless embedded systems is threatened by the challenges associated with programming and deploying them. In addition, there is also the complexity inherent in analyzing sensor data. Notably, these tasks require high levels of end-user expertise, creating an entry barrier to deploying wireless embedded systems. In this work, we introduce **OTTER**, an end-to-end system designed to simplify these tasks by leveraging the emergent properties of large language models (LLMs). We demonstrate that OTTER allows commodity embedded platforms to capture sensor data, such as light and vibration sensors, which can then be used to identify hand gestures in a near real-time manner. This is all while being prompted using natural language by the end-user. OTTER is the first system of its kind and has the potential to significantly facilitate the proliferation of wireless embedded systems.

## Simplifying Embedded Sensor Data Collection and Analysis using Large Language Models (MobiCom'23)

Wireless embedded systems assist us in collecting data from the physical world. Through sensor data analysis, such systems allow us to understand our environment. However, deploying wireless embedded systems and analyzing the collected data remains significantly challenging. This is due to the steep learning curve required to implement custom machine-learning models and other algorithms for data analysis. Furthermore, it is also challenging to program individual embedded devices. The diversity of available platforms and their capabilities further compounds this problem. In response, we introduce an end-to-end system, called **OTTER**. It facilitates simple sensor data collection using commodity embedded platforms. Moreover, it employs a large language model to design a natural language interface for the analysis and extraction of useful information from the sensor data. We present our preliminary work on prototyping this system, applying it to a specific use case of hand gesture detection. OTTER represents one of the first systems to leverage the enhanced capabilities of large language models for simplifying wireless embedded system deployments.

## Rethinking Embedded Sensor Data Analysis with Large Language Models (MobiSys '23)

An important step in the deployment of wireless embedded systems is the analysis of the sensor data. Traditionally, this requires machine learning models tailored to the application use case. However, this step requires significant expertise from the end-user and can be less adaptable to the dynamics of real-world deployments. In recent years, large language models have seen significant developments. These models have been shown to be capable of performing general-purpose tasks. In this work, we explore the hypothesis that large language models can be used to aid in sensor data analysis. Our preliminary findings through real-world experiments show significant promise for two tasks: inferring hand gestures through tracking of light and vibration sensor data. We believe these findings highlight the potential of large language models in sensor data analysis, warranting further study.
